README.md, before:

# go-cache-plugin

[![GoDoc](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=godoc&message=reference&color=lightgrey)](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/grafana/hackathon-13-go-cache-plugin)
[![CI](https://github.com/grafana/hackathon-13-go-cache-plugin/actions/workflows/go-presubmit.yml/badge.svg?event=push&branch=main)](https://github.com/grafana/hackathon-13-go-cache-plugin/actions/workflows/go-presubmit.yml)

This repository defines a tool implementing a `GOCACHEPROG` plugin backed by Amazon S3.

## Installation

```shell
go install github.com/grafana/hackathon-13-go-cache-plugin/cmd/go-cache-plugin@latest
```

## Usage Outline

```shell
export GOCACHEPROG="go-cache-plugin --cache-dir=/tmp/gocache --bucket=some-s3-bucket"
go test ./...
```

Using the plugin requires a Go toolchain built with `GOEXPERIMENT=cacheprog` enabled.
However, you do not need the experiment enabled to build the plugin itself.

## Discussion

The `go-cache-plugin` program supports two modes of operation:

1. **Direct mode**: The program is invoked directly by the Go toolchain as a
   subprocess, and exits when the toolchain execution ends.

   This is the default mode of operation, and requires no additional setup.

2. **Server mode**: The program runs as a separate process and the Go toolchain
   communicates with it over a local socket.

   This mode requires the server to be started up ahead of time, but makes the
   configuration for the toolchain simpler. This mode also permits running an
   in-process module and sum database proxy.

### Server Mode

To run in server mode, use the `serve` subcommand:

```sh
# N.B.: The --plugin flag is required.
go-cache-plugin serve \
   --plugin=5930 \
   --cache-dir=/tmp/gocache \
   --bucket=some-s3-bucket
```

To connect to a server running in this mode, use the `connect` subcommand:

```sh
# Use the same port given to the server's --plugin flag.
# Mnemonic: 5930 == (Go) (C)ache (P)lugin
export GOCACHEPROG="go-cache-plugin connect 5930"
go build ./...
```

The `connect` command just bridges the socket to stdin/stdout, which is how the
Go toolchain expects to talk to the plugin.

### Running a Module Proxy

To enable a caching module proxy, use the `--modproxy` flag to `serve`.  The
module proxy uses HTTP, not the plugin interface, use `--http` to set the address:

```sh
go-cache-plugin serve \
   --plugin=5930 \
   --http=localhost:5970 --modproxy \
   --cache-dir=/tmp/gocache \
   # ... other flags
```

To tell the Go toolchain about the proxy, set:

```sh
# Mnemonic: 5970 == (Go) (M)odule (P)roxy
export GOPROXY=http://localhost:5970/mod   # use the --http address
```

If you want to also proxy queries to `sum.golang.org`, also add:

```sh
export GOSUMDB='sum.golang.org http://locahost:5970/mod/sumdb/sum.golang.org'
```

## References

- [Cache plugin protocol (proposal)](https://github.com/golang/go/issues/59719)
- [Cache plugin library](https://github.com/creachadair/gocache)
- [Go module proxy documentation](https://proxy.golang.org)

Commit message:

Chore: Rename project back
We're no longer going to depend on this entirely being a Hackathon
project.

README.md, after:

# go-cache-plugin

[![GoDoc](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=godoc&message=reference&color=lightgrey)](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/grafana/go-cache-plugin)
[![CI](https://github.com/grafana/go-cache-plugin/actions/workflows/go-presubmit.yml/badge.svg?event=push&branch=main)](https://github.com/grafana/go-cache-plugin/actions/workflows/go-presubmit.yml)

This repository defines a tool implementing a `GOCACHEPROG` plugin backed by Amazon S3.

## Fork

This is a fork of Tailscale's repository -- thanks for your work!

We do not currently intend on doing anything differently from Tailscale.
There are no features planned that Tailscale's product does not offer.

We only have this fork to get pre-built binaries into our runners.

## Installation

```shell
go install github.com/grafana/go-cache-plugin/cmd/go-cache-plugin@latest
```

## Usage Outline

```shell
export GOCACHEPROG="go-cache-plugin --cache-dir=/tmp/gocache --bucket=some-s3-bucket"
go test ./...
```

Using the plugin requires a Go toolchain built with `GOEXPERIMENT=cacheprog` enabled.
However, you do not need the experiment enabled to build the plugin itself.

## Discussion

The `go-cache-plugin` program supports two modes of operation:

1. **Direct mode**: The program is invoked directly by the Go toolchain as a
   subprocess, and exits when the toolchain execution ends.

   This is the default mode of operation, and requires no additional setup.

2. **Server mode**: The program runs as a separate process and the Go toolchain
   communicates with it over a local socket.

   This mode requires the server to be started up ahead of time, but makes the
   configuration for the toolchain simpler. This mode also permits running an
   in-process module and sum database proxy.

### Server Mode

To run in server mode, use the `serve` subcommand:

```sh
# N.B.: The --plugin flag is required.
go-cache-plugin serve \
   --plugin=5930 \
   --cache-dir=/tmp/gocache \
   --bucket=some-s3-bucket
```

To connect to a server running in this mode, use the `connect` subcommand:

```sh
# Use the same port given to the server's --plugin flag.
# Mnemonic: 5930 == (Go) (C)ache (P)lugin
export GOCACHEPROG="go-cache-plugin connect 5930"
go build ./...
```

The `connect` command just bridges the socket to stdin/stdout, which is how the
Go toolchain expects to talk to the plugin.

### Running a Module Proxy

To enable a caching module proxy, use the `--modproxy` flag to `serve`.  The
module proxy uses HTTP, not the plugin interface, use `--http` to set the address:

```sh
go-cache-plugin serve \
   --plugin=5930 \
   --http=localhost:5970 --modproxy \
   --cache-dir=/tmp/gocache \
   # ... other flags
```

To tell the Go toolchain about the proxy, set:

```sh
# Mnemonic: 5970 == (Go) (M)odule (P)roxy
export GOPROXY=http://localhost:5970/mod   # use the --http address
```

If you want to also proxy queries to `sum.golang.org`, also add:

```sh
export GOSUMDB='sum.golang.org http://locahost:5970/mod/sumdb/sum.golang.org'
```

## References

- [Cache plugin protocol (proposal)](https://github.com/golang/go/issues/59719)
- [Cache plugin library](https://github.com/creachadair/gocache)
- [Go module proxy documentation](https://proxy.golang.org)
